# Obligatory Meta-Blogging
Is it a rite of passage to blog about creating your blog? It seems most (personal) blogs have at least one post detailing their
construction, so here goes nothing...

## Unexpected Help
A little known fact is that one of the key figures in fast.ai, Jeremy Howard, is a major proponent of blogging and has 
in fact created a [guide](https://www.fast.ai/posts/2020-01-16-fast_template.html) showing how to use the fastai template for blogging.

The setup is relatively easy. Instead of messing with the ruby and Jekyll configurations that typically come with setting up a 
GitHub Pages blog, the fastai template abstracts away much of the complexity. With just a few GitHub operations, you can have a fully functional, clean blog up and running.

It allows people to focus on the content rather than getting bogged down in too many technical details. 

## How much abstraction is too much abstraction?
The fastai blog template is easy for people who are just starting out blogging, but it tends to hide too much of the underlying mechanics. 
For instance, I spent a non-insignificant amount of time trying to change the background colour to a light beige. 
What should have been a simple CSS adjustment turned into a frustrating experience because the template's abstraction made it 
difficult to identify where and how to override the default styles.

In the end, to simply change the background colour, I had to do this: 
```css
html, body {
  background-color: #f5f5dc !important; 
}

.container, .content, main, .page-content {
  background-color: #f5f5dc !important;
}

.site-header, .site-footer {
  background-color: #f5f5dc !important;
}
```

This level of abstraction creates a double-edged sword. On one hand, it makes blogging very accessible to non-programmers. 
On the other hand, when you want to customize beyond the basics, you find yourself fighting against imported styles and the very abstractions that were supposed to make things easy.

It makes me think whether new users would be better served on sites such as Medium or Substack,
which provide a more intuitive interface without messing around with GitHub.
For people new to the field of programming (which the fastai template is clearly marketed towards), even having a `_config.yml` file dumped on them may seem like too much work compared to the ease of the larger blogging websites.

However, there's something to be said for having complete ownership of your content and the platform it lives on. 
With GitHub Pages and the fastai template, your blog is truly yours. 
No sudden changes in monetization policies, No risk of the platform shutting down and taking your content with it.

Perhaps what we need is a template that maintains the simplicity of the fastai approach but provides clearer pathways for customization. 
For developers who want more control, the template could include optional advanced features that are disabled by default but can be 
enabled without having to rebuild the entire site from scratch. 

### CSS You Later...
In the end, I'm grateful for the fastai template despite its limitations. It got me blogging quickly, which was the goal to begin with. 
I have my own fully functional blog that's hosted on the internet now! No paying for domain names, and no finicky hosting solutions.  



